Today we're going to talk about encoding,
everything from A to Z,
what you need to know from the
pre-production side all the
way to the finished target.
Let me see if this is working here.
Skip that.
I already self-introduced myself.
Encoding means a lot of different
things to a lot of different people.
I imagine we have a gamut of people here,
a lot of beginners and also
maybe some expert encoders.
But, you know, the workflow is always
going to be the same.
Sometimes some people come
in halfway into the workflow.
They already have it captured.
Other times, you know,
you want to start from the camera
perspective all the way to capturing,
encoding, delivering,
and then archiving for later repurposing.
Most of the things you need to know
about encoding is to really figure
out what your target is going to be.
You want to focus your attention on who
you're going to be delivering it to,
so you can pick the appropriate format,
and also so you don't
waste any resources.
If you're just going to be doing web
content only and never repurpose it,
and you know you're never
going to repurpose it,
there's no point in
shooting on an HD cam.
Obviously,
if you're going to repurpose it,
you want to shoot on an HD cam,
so one day you can put it on an HD DVD,
you want to put it on an HD broadcast,
stuff like that.
You've got to know what to do
for your target with your budget,
etc.
Here are some of the common
encoding targets we have.
Nowadays, they want to make DVDs,
they want to make CD-ROMs.
They want to put stuff on the web,
or with the new whole mobile
device craze that might be hitting
the wave in the US this year,
you might see a lot of 3GPP or PP2
stuff like you see in Europe and Japan.
You want to take advantage
of all these targets.
The target is going
to define your format.
If you go on a DVD or DVD-ROM,
you're going to encode in a
proper format for that target,
MPEG-2, MPEG-1,
depending on what you're looking to do,
how much material you
want to fit on a DVD,
etc.
If you're offlining
video for later on use,
you want to always offline in
the highest possible format
for what your purposes are.
Be that HD uncompressed, DVCAM, DVC Pro,
etc.
Always one offline in the
highest possible video.
Then you have a variety of formats you
can use for CD-ROMs or the Internet.
You guys know what all
those are on the Internet.
You'll see anything from Windows Media to
QuickTime to Reel to MPEG Layer 3
for audio and a variety of others.
Flash video.
If you want to call that video.
And CD, you know,
all kinds of other stuff.
So, we'll talk about, you know,
most of the stuff here.
I don't know if most of you
guys are looking here as far as
encoding to manufacture DVDs or
author DVDs or if everybody's
really focused more on the Web.
Who's really here interested more in
like Web and mobile device delivery?
That kind of gives me a clue to like,
I don't want to focus on
DVDs when people are like,
don't care.
But, you know, basically,
if you're interested in, like,
mobile device delivery,
you're going to want to focus on that.
So, basically, if you're doing DVD,
I think the holy grail
is really the editor.
You know, the beauty about QuickTime and
Apple is that you have one of
the best editing platforms,
you know, in the world.
You have Final Cut HD.
You want to edit your piece.
You want to just finish
it and then just create,
you know,
different versions to multiple targets.
So, in order to do that,
you define your targets and you
want to do that in one quick,
easy step.
Well, the question is, can you do that?
And what tools?
What tools to use to get to your target?
So, if you're doing a DVD,
it's pretty easy nowadays.
I mean, you have Compressor.
It comes with Final Cut HD.
You just create your settings,
stuff like that.
You create a droplet and
I'll show you later in,
you know, through the process how
to create a droplet,
how to create a droplet.
You can attach it to a watch
folder with an Apple script.
So, you can just drag it into a
folder that's on a server.
It'll encode itself.
You come in later after
you're doing other stuff.
You can just drink a coffee
and it's all done for you.
Compressor's hands down the most
effective tool right now and the
cheapest tool if you want to,
you know, do stuff.
Unless you're running a DVD encoding
house where you need to encode
three times faster in real time,
then, you know, there are other tools,
but you can talk to me about that later.
Then,
if you're trying to do MPEG-4 type of
format encoding because you want to
maybe do stuff for CD-ROMs or DVD-ROMs,
or the web, you know,
it kind of covers that gamut.
And hopefully,
once the H.264 codec comes out,
you'll be able to just cover a
variety of targets with that container
as far as MPEG-4 is concerned.
Then, you want, you have other tools.
And, you know, it kind of,
and the tool is going to kind
of be decided upon based on
the codec you decide on using.
So, you'll see that for MPEG-4, you know,
compressor, squeeze, cleaner,
I also didn't mention here,
but there's a product called, you know,
the MPEG-4.
But there's a product by
Totally Hip called the HipFlix.
And there's a couple
other products out there,
I'm sure, you know,
that I don't know about.
But the main ones are like
QuickTime Pro for one-offs.
If you want to do batch jobs, cleaner,
squeeze and compressor will do them.
If you're using Sorensen,
you really want to use cleaner
because it's the only one
that lets you do two-pass VBR.
And I'll be talking about
reverse telecine in a little bit,
so I'll tell you other
reasons to use cleaner.
However,
compressing to a QuickTime movie,
Compressor,
and you're doing it from Final Cut here.
A lot of assumptions here are
that we're using Final Cut.
Why?
Because it's the best
editing platform out there.
If you're using iMovie,
you can just do the same thing.
Also,
you just create your QuickTime ref movie,
and I'll go through, hopefully,
with Final Cut in my demo on
how to create your ref movie,
drag it in, and use it.
How many in the crowd use Final Cut?
[Transcript missing]
Flash video, if you look at some people,
they're the big craze
for flash video lately.
I personally don't think the flash
video quality is that great right now.
It's great for tucking heads
and compatibility-wise,
flash is just all over the place.
If you're doing corporate
stuff with tucking heads,
I say use it.
It's fantastic.
You don't have to worry about plug-ins,
etc.
But if you're doing a
lot of high-motion stuff,
it's really not at par
versus other videos as far as
color saturation and motion.
compensation type of stuff, so.
That's just my opinion on that.
Windows Media, want it or not,
you're going to have to
encode to Windows Media.
You're going to have clients that
want to encode to Windows Media.
And how do you do that on the Mac when
Microsoft doesn't really have a
Windows Media SDK to let Mac users
author Windows Media content?
And there's not much you
can really do about it.
You really have to use a PC if
you want to achieve that.
So, you know, I have techniques.
So you can export to an AVI file,
obviously as a one-off from any,
you know,
QuickTime Player Pro or from Final Cut.
Or if you don't, you know,
depending on what your source footage,
you know, what your end-use footage is,
you can also just use Compressor
and do it into MPEG-1 and
a Windows Media Encoder
will also take that.
And you can have a script,
maybe share a Windows Drive and
have it just dump in there
and automatically encode.
Now, obviously,
you know that if you encode to MPEG-1 as
your source for your Windows Media files,
you're going to start losing
some of those chroma values
and stuff because it's not,
you know, 422.
And you might introduce other artifacts.
But, like I said,
if your footage is coming
off of a DV camera,
doing something like that is
not really going to take away
too much of the source for it.
So it all depends.
You know, if I was making a DVD,
I wouldn't do, you know,
I wouldn't do that.
But this is all for Windows Media.
So, you know,
I'm going to have to do that.
So it doesn't matter.
Real.
Now, you can, from what I understand,
and I don't know if any
of you guys have seen it,
but I heard there was going
to be an export plugin for
Final Cut coming out that's in
beta right now that will let you,
from Final Cut Project,
just export to real.
I don't know.
It's a rumor.
There's a lot of rumors going on.
But you could have a real encoder,
real producer for Linux running
or something on a separate box.
I usually run encoders on a separate box.
I can just copy my, you know, files over.
And you could do the same thing that I do
for the AVI files and stuff like that.
Unfortunately, you know,
a PC or Linux box is your
best bet for real right now.
And hopefully once the
export component comes out,
it'll make it so you
don't have to export,
you know, a large file.
You can just do it from a
ref movie from Final Cut.
And if you guys know of any of that,
just come and talk to me.
Somebody's out there asking me?
So Compression Master,
I really don't have much to say
about them because I was trying
to get a hold of the guys and
they never sent me any info.
But I have, you know, it's,
from what I've heard, it's, you know,
they do a lot of stuff that
you can do with Cleaner,
but it's like two,
three times harder to use.
So I don't know personal experience,
but it's another app that you could
use to encode anything in QuickTime and
MP4 files and stuff like that.
It's called Compression
Master by Popwire.
Unfortunately,
I wasn't able to get my hands on
a true release one before this.
So, since most of us here are coming
from Final Cut and we really are
interested in delivering for the web or,
you know, some sort of broadband,
you know, modem, whatever, phones, etc.
Or a non-DVD, I'm going to say.
There's always the debate of
streaming versus download.
So a lot of people say QuickTime and
they always just don't know,
well, is it streaming or is it download?
They don't know what the difference is,
right?
So the difference between streaming
and a download movie is two things.
One,
You know,
there's a difference in protocols.
Usually streaming is actually,
and I should have switched this,
streaming is,
true streaming is over RTSP, transport,
and the download or progressive
download QuickTime movies,
which is like, I like to call them
to differentiate them,
are usually over a web server, HTTP.
So a download movie is
all the QuickTime movie
trailers you see out there,
extremely high-quality.
What's the difference?
Well,
a download movie guarantees you every
single frame gets to your end user.
So for somebody delivering a trailer,
for somebody delivering a
daily or something like that,
it could be, you know,
it's the proper way of doing it
because you don't miss a frame.
However, you know,
in a progressive download situation,
the way it works with the
QuickTime player is it starts
playing as soon as it knows
that it will finish playing,
you know, but it'll finish downloading
before it finishes playing.
So, you know, the longer the movie is,
and depending on the data rate,
it'll still be playing.
The bigger the file is going
to be for you to download,
and the longer the latency
to start playing is.
So you've really got to kind
of do some testing as to,
well, if I want to have a 300K movie,
you know, for download,
and my movies are going to be
on the average of 30 minutes,
and my users have a connection speed of,
you know, 400K, well,
that means that my latency on, you know,
by the time they start
watching it is going to be,
I don't know, two minutes or something.
And I'm just putting numbers out there.
I'm not showing you the numbers.
But I can,
if you have questions about that later,
I can tell you how to calculate that.
So really, HTTP download movies
are not recommended for,
in my opinion, anything over 10 minutes
is really pushing it.
I usually say about seven minutes.
That's why trailers are the
best thing in the world.
Another thing is because when you
have a 30-minute program and somebody
wants to watch the last five minutes,
they can't start watching that until
that portion's been downloaded.
Whereas streaming, on the other hand,
is made just for that.
You know, for a two-hour show,
for a three-hour show,
you can get to any point in time,
and you'll get that, you know,
just the part of the
video you want to see.
However, you know,
the con on that is that you don't
guarantee the delivery of those packets.
If you're doing RTSP,
you can force your player,
and if you're in a situation
where you want to force your
player to HTTP protocol,
you can do that.
So if you're in a situation
where you want to do quick
time streaming over HTTP,
then you would be guaranteeing a
higher rate of packets to the player.
And therefore, you know,
if you're in a situation where
you have a corporate environment,
you want to make sure they
get every single frame,
you might want to force that.
But usually, streaming is for
something over 10 minutes,
and download is for something under
10 minutes if you want to guarantee
the quality and stuff like that.
That's what I recommend.
So now let's look at some
production techniques.
You guys are familiar with Final Cut.
So, you know,
I don't really have to tell you that if
you've been editing for a while that,
you know, garbage in, garbage out.
Everybody who edits knows that,
hopefully, by now.
So, you know,
you're not going to take crappy video
and suddenly make it like HD quality
just by putting it in a computer.
You know,
there's only so much massaging you can
do in the post and stuff like that.
So, the key is to have a good camera,
you know,
the higher-quality camera you can get,
three CCDs if you're doing DV,
HD cameras, beta cams, digi-beta cams,
you know, better lenses.
All that stuff is going to
just give you that much more.
And you have to balance
that with your budget,
obviously.
and then so how do you when you edit
I'm really talking about compression
here but when you edit obviously
you want to keep everything in the
original source format if possible.
So where possible if you can edit in
HD and you capture it and you shot
in HD that's the best way to go.
If for some reason you can't do that
and you have to go to a lesser format,
well you know I don't recommend that but
you know you got to do what you got to
do for your budget and really if you're
shooting on HD and you're going to cut
it for a CD-ROM or something well maybe
it's not that big of a deal if you're
just going down to DV stuff like that.
So you know when we think of
compression what compression does
is obviously it reduces the amount
of data of your original source.
You know back in the day when if you
have some type of storage constraint or
something like that obviously you might
want to capture it in a more compressed
format so you can do all your editing
you know and once you have that in
Final Cut I don't know if you're familiar
with the feature but you can trim your
project so that then you can go ahead
and recapture it at a higher data rate
and then just take advantage of the space
you have on your drive stuff like that.
Compression is a container of the movie.
Codecs are compressor-decompressors.
They usually define just how much
you're going to compress video or audio,
and they have many different properties.
If you went through that session,
you probably would have learned
something on what codec to
pick for what type of target.
Now I'm going to proceed
to hopefully my demo.
This isn't really going to be a big demo.
Like I said before,
if you're thinking of doing...one
of the big things that people
do is... Is it working?
Yeah, they're all working, all three.
Okay.
So one of the big things is that
people don't understand that a
lot of footage is shot on film.
And obviously all the movie trailers,
that's all shot on film.
So that footage is all
24 frames per second,
and when you compress it and
you're taking footage that's 29.97,
you're automatically compressing it.
So you're automatically taking almost six
extra frames and putting those through
your compressor and increasing the amount
of data and therefore your end target.
And so you're still encoding
all these phantom frames.
So what you want to do is you
want to reverse telecine it,
bring it back to a 24-frame
source so that when you encode it,
you get the purest encode because
it's just using the necessary data.
Cinema Tools lets you do this, however,
there's a big "if." The big "if"
is that you actually have to know
and understand what the process
of inserting Phantom Frames
is and all that good stuff.
I've been working in the
video field for a long time.
and it's still kind of tricky to me.
So if you did have your footage,
and you know, maybe you're a post-house
or something like that,
and you know the sequence,
and I'll show you what
I mean by sequence.
Let's open up a clip.
I'm going to get Britney Spears or R.
Kelly.
I'll open that.
So let's just open up a clip,
and we want to do what's
called a reverse telecine.
We want to remove all the phantom frames.
This is originally a film clip,
and we want to take out those
six frames per second out.
So we can go ahead and
click on Reverse Telecine,
and it's going to ask us what
the options of the pulldown is.
So you have four options here.
The problem here is usually that
people don't know which option to use.
Also, when you do a reverse telecine,
you have to start, well,
as far as Cinema Tools is concerned,
because it just assumes that the
first frame is always an A-frame.
And I'm not going to
explain to you what that is,
but, you know, basically, like I said,
you have source 24 fips per second.
When you change it over to 2997,
you're basically just introducing
a duplicate frame every so often.
So, you know, you say, okay,
at third frame, introduce, you know,
the same one,
so the eye doesn't see it because
they're two of the same in a row.
You don't notice it.
You want to strip those out.
So if you don't know what an A-frame is,
or you already captured this,
and you didn't capture an A-frame,
you won't be able to use this at all.
But if you are in a pinch,
what you can do is you can take, like,
10 seconds of footage, pick one of these,
and then go ahead and say, okay,
I'm going to pick, you know, this one.
And if you see here, this is the sequence
that we're going for.
So if you don't know,
you would have to go through,
create the iterations, pick them,
and then go ahead and
reverse-tele-synch it.
This is going to go on for a little bit.
So you can see how
painful this process is.
Well,
that's because Cinema Tools is really
made for the post house that gives you
the 2997 with the burnt-in sequence.
So you can just-- oh, well,
the sequence is AABB_B.
Then I pick that, and boom, it does it.
And usually,
you would do this before importing
your source into Final Cut.
Therefore, for encoding,
this isn't always really helpful unless,
one, you know what you're doing.
Two, you do some testing.
So that now-- I'll show you what-- just
so you know what would end up being here.
What I didn't see is
where it put my file.
I think in here.
Okay,
so just so you can see what something
that was telecine-ed and possibly wrong.
When you see it play back,
Actually, I picked the right one.
You want to look for frames
that are like stuttering,
any part where it stutters.
So, unfortunately,
I picked the right setting and
actually did that on purpose
because I'd used that one before.
But you would have to
go through each frame,
and when you see a duplicate
frame where it's stutter,
that means you picked the
wrong pull-down method.
So, if you want to use this, you can,
but you have to test it a lot.
Now, if you look at the size of the
file that I just telecineated
versus the original Brittany Club,
You can see that this
is the one we telecine.
It's 143 megs.
The original clip is 180 almost.
So, you know,
you're saving almost 40 megs,
and that's 40 megs less
of data you're encoding,
and it can drastically increase
the quality of your video.
This is only an 11-second file.
That's why using any type of
tool that's going to do a reverse
telecine is going to be very,
very valuable.
Like I said,
I don't recommend using cinema tools
unless you know what you're doing,
and even then, it's tricky.
You have to do some tests.
But if you use Cleaner,
and you're using Source that
you know comes from film,
but it's now 2997,
use the telecine feature.
And what it does is it
actually goes through,
reads a bunch of frames,
and then it calculates.
It's a lot of work to figure out
what sequence is the right one.
Now, some people make the mistake
of just telecining everything,
because they figure, you know,
but if your content is
not all coming from film,
you should never do that.
Otherwise,
you will end up with stuttering
or frames where you have bad
interlacing and stuff like that.
So this is just to show you
about the reverse telecine in...
[Transcript missing]
So, we're talking, you know,
a lot of people say, well,
on the Internet, what am I going to do?
What's, you know,
what's our targets nowadays?
I mean, it's always changing.
What's 200 KB?
What's 300 KB?
Or why is it that the
Apple trailers look so good,
those large ones, you know,
but how do they do it?
You know, well, they do it, you know,
they're usually like 25 megs,
and that's why they look so good.
And on a broadband connection, well,
you'll start seeing it, and because,
like I said, it's only five minutes,
you know, people think, oh, it's great,
but, you know, when you try to do that
to a 30-minute clip,
it's not as great.
So,
if you're doing encoding for streaming,
you're
You really gotta pick
your targets accordingly.
People are still dealing with modems.
I mean, the US is really the only
country that has their modems.
Everybody gets like a 56K connection,
gets like 38K or higher, but even then.
But outside the US,
a lot of people are still getting
20K connections or 30K connections.
So when you think of a 28K modem,
you really want to
encode for 20 kilobits.
Now, why is this?
Because people don't
understand that on modems,
you have header packets that
are in the modem packets.
So you're losing already information.
So you can't get any closer than 20K,
and that's for your
combined video and audio.
So if you're aiming at a 56K modem, well,
nobody ever gets 56K.
It's physically impossible, you know,
unless you're like in a lab at Rockwell.
53K over a POTS line is probably
as good as it will ever get,
and rarely do people get that.
So I think the average right now
in the US is right around 40.
That's pretty high.
It's gone up.
But outside of the US,
rarely do people get 40KB.
So you want to, you know,
you have to kind of pick
that target accordingly.
If I was only encoding content
for modem users in the US,
I could probably do 38K, 40K.
If I was doing it global,
I would probably do 32K with QuickTime,
you know.
Now, you can also use
multiple bitrate targets.
With QuickTime, so you could encode,
you know, you encode your 20K, your 38K,
and then you, you know,
you create a ref movie, stuff like that.
But so we'll go on ISDN.
I don't even know people
that have ISDN anymore,
but people still want kind
of that middle of the road,
100K, 80K.
It's a good target for corporate
small business for a lot of people.
If you do a lot of corporate work,
anywhere from 100 to 150K,
it might not be bad,
unless they have a lot of bandwidth.
For their users,
then you can go up to 300K.
But obviously, if people are watching,
you know,
if there's 50 users watching 300K
in a company and they only got a T1,
well, it's going to look pretty bad.
So broadband users, you know,
I've seen people right now
go anywhere from 300 to 500K.
It all depends what your target is,
again.
But with broadband,
because it's a single pipe,
you can get away with going 500,
even 700 on a lot of cable stuff.
So it all depends.
And then we're going to talk about how
the data rate really lets you choose
what your window size is going to be.
So,
based on the data rate and your content,
you're going to have to choose a codec,
right?
If you're going to be encoding
in a standards-based format,
such as MP4 or something like that,
you're going to want to use
probably the MPEG-4 codec,
or hopefully the 264 codec,
when it comes out.
If you're going to be
doing a QuickTime movie,
you might want to either choose the
MPEG-4 codec for a lot of compatibility,
for a lot more standards-based stuff,
so you have that choice,
or the Sorenson Pro Video codec.
If you use the Sorenson codec,
always use the Pro version.
Never use the regular one,
unless you really, really,
really have to, because the quality is
not going to be there,
and it takes even longer to encode.
Now,
the drawback with Sorenson Pro is that
it takes two to three times longer
to encode than an MP4 codec video.
However,
Sorenson Pro has better color saturation,
and I think it deals better
with motion than MP4.
But if you know what
you're doing with MP4,
and you do a couple tests,
you can take an MP4 encoded
clip and adjust a little bit
color correction in Cleaner,
using some of those things,
and you could actually
match Sorenson saturation.
You're going to have to tweak that.
People that automatically
off the bat say,
well, MP4 just doesn't match the
quality of Sorenson Pro,
have never done that tweaking.
At first glance,
you'd say right away Sorenson wins.
But for the compressionists out there,
doing a little color correction tweaking,
a little gamma,
a little brightness contrast adjustment,
99% of people will never be
able to tell which one's better.
So then, audio.
So then you have audio codecs like,
you know, AAC, QDesign Pro,
Qualcomm PureVoice,
which I don't even know if
people use it that much anymore.
But it all depends.
If you're doing stuff for modems,
corporate stuff, headshots,
you want to use PureVoice,
because it's super low, low bandwidth.
If bandwidth is not an object,
then you want to use AAC, you know,
because it's just hands down
the best codec there is for,
you know,
for music and voice or a combination of
both when bandwidth is not an object.
Some people want to use MP3s
because it's more of a standard,
stuff like that.
It's not a bad deal, but MP3,
MP layer 3 tends to not have
as high quality and I think
also use a little bit.
Sometimes you see more sync issues when
you're using video with an MP3 type of.
So I talked about Sorenson Pro Video,
just to go over this a little bit.
It lets you deliver probably the highest
quality video without any tweaking,
but also you have to use most of your
encoding time compared to other videos.
If you're using VBR encoding, 2Pass VBR,
you will only be able to
use Cleaner to do this.
and it has excellent,
excellent scaling capabilities.
However, it's also pretty CPU intensive
if you're aiming at like G3s
or stuff like that by any,
you know.
Standard codecs.
If you were here for the codecs session,
there's just a gazillion
codecs that QuickTime handles.
Some people have probably
never heard of some of them,
and they have all a variety of uses.
So I'm not going to rehash on that,
but mostly for Internet delivery,
you're going to use the
ones that I was mentioning.
For instance,
you could possibly use MPEG-1
if you're doing IPTV stuff,
any of the H.263, H.264 codecs,
and obviously MP4 or any
of the 3GPP or GPP2 codecs.
If you're offlining stuff,
you might use a JPEG for
offlining stuff to get lossless,
or DV or MPEG-2.
Like I said before,
always use the pro versions of the codecs
if you're using QDesign or Sorensen Pro.
You know,
a faster... I don't agree with that.
So, let's talk about some web
video production techniques.
I don't know how many of you
folks out there do any of the
actual production for shooting,
but if you are doing any production,
you want to remember a lot of basic
things are going to go a long,
long way when it comes to encoding,
especially when you're encoding
for CD-ROM or lower target.
These are techniques that
people just don't think of,
but they actually, you know,
they just make a really big difference.
I said before,
use the highest quality camera
you can get your hands on.
When it comes to audio,
use the best quality mic
you can get your hands on.
Use a lav mic if you can, use a boom,
or if you're using a camera mic,
just make sure you have
the camera well in there,
make sure you're monitoring the audio,
stuff like that.
Make sure you are,
if you're shooting something
for a talking head,
for example,
and there's a piece of the backdrop
that's moving because of the wind,
don't shoot it there.
Make sure you can shoot it
with a static background.
The more movement there is,
the more the codec is going to
have to work on the whole scene,
instead of just working on the
little pieces that are changing.
The less movement you have in a frame,
that means the higher quality
video you'll be able to
get at a lower data rate,
with any codec.
You always want to look for solid color,
stuff like that.
Poor shading is going to bring
in artifacts if you have a
background that's not well lit,
stuff like that.
Also, if this is going to be only
for encoding at CD-ROM or lower
rates and stuff like that,
and you're looking at
something corporate,
something not too fancy, do all cuts.
Don't do crazy long fades,
because when you're going through a fade,
every frame in that fade is a pixel
that's changing in a dissolve,
for example.
Well, that's going to encode a lot worse
than if it was just a straight cut.
Now, you know,
you've got to take production value
versus the value of your encode and weigh
it out and see what you really want.
But if you're going for broadband,
chances are nowadays you
won't need to do that.
Another thing is,
anytime you have a handheld camera
versus a locked-down stationary camera,
you're going to be 10
million times better,
because what we don't notice sometimes
is where the frame is moving.
Even if it just moves one pixel,
that is going to change.
It's not going to be that
much harder to encode.
So always make sure you have
locked-down and well-lit cameras.
So now we're going to talk about
more of the interesting stuff,
not the Cinema Tools demo,
which I wish I had cleaner also
so I could show you what I was
talking about in Telecine.
Oh, it is right here.
Well, we might talk about it
later if we have time.
This is more important, Compressor.
There's some cool stuff in Compressor.
I mean,
I really think Compressor is kind of
at its baby stage right now because
it's only a 1.2 or 1.0.2 version,
but with a little bit of help,
it can really blow up
into something that...
Compressor is a simple, easy,
and fast way to create a time-saving
workflow that works for you.
You can also use it to create a
time-saving code that works for you.
What I have in my workflow is I have
a server that does all the encoding.
And I set up Compressor there,
and I set up a shared drive.
And on that shared drive,
I have in an area just different folders.
And in those folders,
I'll have a little droplet
that I created with Compressor.
"What you really want to make sure is you
want to make sure you go to Compressor
and you want to make sure you've got 1.2.
If you don't have 1.2, you might not see
everything you see here.
So make sure you update your copy to 1.2.
You can create a destination,
and we'll go ahead and create
some custom destination here.
Say local.
Spin it around.
Okay, I'm just gonna do it.
In my Raul folder.
So you create a destination,
you can name it here.
Okay.
You can make it a default if you want,
but we're not.
So, in Compressor here, you have Presets,
Destinations,
I showed you how to make a destination.
[Transcript missing]
Let's open up.
So, what you usually want to have is...
Let's take one of our sample movies here.
Kelly.
It's a little bit too big.
So, we can go ahead and now
when you hit Preview,
so you can like adjust any
settings you might have.
This is especially good
for adjusting filters.
You want to keep this window open.
Pick a good frame that has like a
lot of changes or a lot of... Oh,
this is not good.
Maybe this one because
there's a lot more.
There's not a lot of color
in this whole video clip.
So, but here you got the skin tones.
You want to make sure the skin
tones of both people come out fine.
[Transcript missing]
So let's say we were going
to create an MPEG-4 clip.
Let's say actually,
because we were going to use our
24 frame-per-second footage that
we reversed telecine in here.
I'm going to use this one.
This one I'm going to remove.
Go ahead and create a preset for that.
I'm just actually going to use
one of these presets already here.
Seems like there's a bow.
So, a bunch here.
We're going to use it,
we're going to make it for broadband.
So I want large progressive
because it's a small clip.
I can look at all the specs here,
down here.
Shows you what specs of that setting is.
I can see, you know, if I want to adjust.
One of the things I was
talking about earlier is that,
you know, unfortunately what you don't
have here is an AVI export.
If you did, you could get to your,
you know,
have it export to AVI and put it on some
type of Windows box or Linux box with
Real Producer or Windows Media Encoder,
and then you could get to those
clients that need that type.
If you don't have to worry
about Windows Media or Real,
then, you know, your job is done here.
Yes?
No, not MPEG Layer 3 audio,
MPEG-1 Layer 3 audio.
You're talking about audio?
Well, here, this is just,
this is the container format.
So, for example, if you, you know,
wanted the actual...
So no, not if you want to do-- yeah,
you're right.
It only lets you do their standard audio.
Eric Wright.
But here you should be
able to set MPEG audio.
[Transcript missing]
I really, if I was making an MPEG,
if I was making a .mov file,
I would never use MP3 audio.
I mean, there's really no point,
especially when you have AAC and
stuff like that for MP4 files.
I don't see the advantage of using it.
MPEG-1 Layer 3 audio is
really only good for,
in my opinion,
for audio because of such the, you know,
acceptance over the amount
of players out there.
It has that advantage,
but when it comes to video and audio,
I don't see the advantage of
putting them both together at all.
So,
let's go back to just making a standard,
you know, MP4 file,
which is what we're looking to do here.
A lot of things, you know,
like I said before, you have to pick.
You know, what your data rate is.
Now, what is constant versus VBR?
Well, when you're doing a
constant bitrate movie,
you're looking for consistency.
Constant bitrate movies are great for,
if you're, for some reason,
if you were encoding
MP4 files for hardware.
Hardware specs usually are a lot
less lenient than specs for software.
So, people don't realize a good
example is when you make DVDs.
Some people, you know,
they're making a DVD for a client.
It's a 20 minute video.
They figure they got 4.7 gigs on the DVD.
You know what?
I'm going to pick this
one thing that says,
"Give me 60 minutes
highest quality." Well,
they don't notice they're making
like this DVD MPEG-2 file that's
running at like 9 megabits.
Well, most of your players out there,
when the person puts the DVD in there,
they're just going to barf
and they're going to call you
up and they're going to say,
"What's it?
Well, I made it the highest quality.
Look at it.
It's not bad." "High quality?
Look around my computer." Well, yeah,
but, you know, hardware,
if you ever looked at a real DVD,
you know, high quality production DVDs,
you pick up a Spider-Man DVD or some,
it's one of the latest really hot ones.
And you change your display on your,
on your VCR at home until
you hit like most Pioneer,
Sony's they'll have.
They'll have a data rate tracking.
And just watch that.
The sweet spot for encoding
DVDs is really anywhere between
5.5 and 6 megabits per second.
Sometimes you'll see stuff go up there,
but you don't realize that anytime
you go above 6 megabits per second,
you're shortening the
compatibility window.
And so that's where you're
going to run into issues.
So you've got to be aware
of what your targets are.
And when it comes to DVDs,
you deal a lot with hardware.
Now that we have MPEG-4,
there's a lot of people that are
dealing with MPEG-4 hardware,
so you've got to be aware of that if
you are dealing with any of those.
If you're just dealing for the Internet,
chances are you've just got to know
what your end-user's broadband is.
So we're going to say, well, 300K.
And actually, I want it to be medium VBR,
just so it less...
I can't select it there,
so...
[Transcript missing]
Well, we're going to keep stereo.
64 KB is pretty good for audio,
for music.
And I'm not going to stream it.
This is progressive download,
so I don't need any
streaming hints at all.
Hinting is strictly for streaming,
so it has all the packetizer information
so that the streaming server can chop
it up into little bits and pieces.
You don't need that.
Don't select it.
And then the beauty about Compressor,
it's got all the filters
for QuickTime stuff.
So if you wanted to, for example,
deinterlace something,
do gamma correction,
which comes in really handy because,
well, what am I going to gamma correct?
Well,
I've got to see what I'm doing here.
Now,
some things people don't realize is that,
you know,
we encode a lot on Macs and stuff,
but a lot of your users
are going to be on a PC,
and the PC graphic cards have
a totally different gamma.
And a lot of times you'll
encode this and you'll say,
like, well, you know,
this looks pretty good.
It looks well lit here.
And then you see on a
PC monitor it's all dark.
So you have to adjust for that,
and depending on the tool you're using,
you know, usually what you want
to do is you want to,
if you're encoding on a Mac,
You want to go under 1.0 and
make it a little bit lighter.
Sometimes it's depending on the content,
but in this case I'm going to go at 0.8.
I'm actually going to go 0.9 not only.
Just a tad lighter in the gamma
correction is going to make the
content on the PC be that much better.
If I was encoding on a PC,
I'd do it the opposite direction.
I would make the content just a
little bit darker so that I would
get the best quality overall.
There's a lot of filters
you can use here.
There's noise removal.
There's all kinds of stuff.
You know,
the reason of shooting the footage
in the best possible way is so
you can avoid using any of these.
But the ones you might use
would be deinterlacing,
if you wanted to deinterlace your
files so you can have a progressive
frame so it compresses better.
Also, you know,
if you wanted to letterbox
stuff just to make it look cool.
or just to give it that feel for
what your website is all about.
You can also do cropping here,
all that stuff.
We're just going to leave it default,
stuff like that, just for the purpose of
showing how to use this.
So in summary,
you can look at this once again,
see what your preset's all about,
and then you can save it as a
droplet by clicking on here,
on the save selection as droplet.
It's going to say, okay,
where do you want to save this droplet?
What do you want to name it?
Well, I'm going to call it WWDC.
Thank you.
And put it in my... I don't
want the source folder.
[Transcript missing]
Now, where does this become automation?
Well, if you only have one machine
and you're not really,
like I said,
doing this in a server environment,
you're done there.
Now, if for some reason,
let's say you had something in here,
and we'll just call this folder.
Here, we'll call this My Server.
Let's say that was a folder on My Server.
Then what I would do is-- and
I don't know if you guys want to
write some of my stuff down here.
This is the wrong one.
So what we do is,
you see this little script here is
really for a watch folder script.
And if you guys want the script,
just leave me a card or something.
I'll send you guys an email with
the script and all that good stuff,
put it on our website or something.
And basically the way to use it is
what you're going to want to do.
This is not what you're wanting to do.
Can't find my cheat sheet.
Okay,
so what you're going to want to do is
you're going to want to take the script,
put it into your scripts under Library,
Apple.
I don't have it in here.
"I'm not actually going
to go over it then.
But what you want to do is I'll send
you the exact stuff you need to do.
You basically take the script
that I'm going to give you.
You can change a couple things.
At least I like to change
the name in the script.
In the script,
you see the droplet needs to
be named CompressorDroplet.
So my droplet was named
CompressorDroplet.
My Droplet was named WWDC Drop.
You would change this
name here to WWDC Drop.
and then you would go ahead and
put it in your scripts folder.
Once it's in the scripts folder,
whatever you decide to
use as your standard,
you can just create
this whatever you want.
And then what you do is you create
a folder for every different preset,
and I would create a folder
in my server that says,
"Okay, this is going to be just for
MPEG-4 24p content." You know,
that's going to cable targets.
And then what you do is when you're done,
You can just go ahead and create,
you know, take your stuff, your files,
drag them into the folder, and boom,
and then the watch script
will just go ahead,
force that droplet onto that
folder when new content comes in,
move it into a done
folder when it's done,
and leave the encoded
content there already.
Because I'm not here in
a server environment,
I can't really show you
guys how to do that.
Yeah, the droplet.
So the script would really
only be so that your machine,
in a case, like,
if you wanted to offload the
CPU usage so that another
machine is just cranking all the,
you know, doing all the encoding while
you're doing stuff here,
you can go ahead, copy that to a folder
that's going to do that.
If you only have one machine,
then you just use the droplet
like it is right there,
and then we would just take, you know,
this file here, drag it onto the droplet,
and we're done.
You see?
Yeah, you never make it roll.
You can have a droplet for each
one and drag your ref movie there.
You can have a destination for each .
You can have-- or the same destination,
so that all your files get done in one.
Yeah.
The script is only good so that
this-- if I had another server,
I would have the scripts-- oh.
What you need to do in order to
make the droplet work is tell it
not to show that and then save it.
So let's quit the droplet.
Let me just get this running.
I'll answer your question.
So when you're in an
automated environment,
you're going to be doing maybe 10,
20 clips at a time and stuff like that.
You don't want this, you know,
you don't want... Why is
it not submitting my file?
This is strange.
You don't want everything
hogging this machine.
So you create it on a server so that
that server can do all the compression.
Now, the droplet would go in
the folder on the server,
right?
And then the script would go on
the folder on the server also.
The only thing that's on your
machine is the ref movie you create,
and you drag it on to that folder.
That's if, like I said before,
if you're using a server
automated workflow environment.
If you don't want to offload
any CPU encoding to your server,
you basically just, you know,
you would be done here and
you would just drag it on.
There's no script involved.
There's no nothing.
Now why this droplet is not working is,
I'm trying to figure out.
One thing I find using
this sometimes is that...
[Transcript missing]
It also comes with DVD Studio.
So it comes with both.
And you can't get it separate right now.
Yeah, go ahead.
It also works, but the thing is,
if you had, this is really set up like,
basically what you would do is
you'd set up your server to do that,
and then when people are editing,
all they've got to do is drag it.
So let's say you had like
three capture stations,
you'd want to set it up this way.
That way you don't have somebody have to
set up all the queue and stuff like that.
Yeah.
And that's what you would
use here in that environment.
Because then, I mean,
you could still show them if you wanted,
I mean, if you have a class environment,
you could show them
how to use the batcher,
you know, and maybe just,
but the problem is that then, you know,
they've got to know how to set
up a preset and all that stuff.
Yeah.
If they could import the presets,
you could just say, "Okay,
here are all the presets.
They're going to come from you,"
and you just give it to them.
They drop it in their folder,
and then they could just use
the batcher like he's saying.
Oh, they're not video editors
or anything like that.
They're journalists.
Yeah, in that case,
you might want to just set it
up in a server environment.
Stuff like that.
So, there's just a couple things to do.
One is you have to create the droplets.
And obviously,
with a little bit more Apple scripting,
you could probably create a
little bit better interface,
something where somebody can
pick a droplet out of maybe,
you could have the Apple script,
like look through a main,
folder that has all your droplets,
and then the journalist
just needs to say,
oh, well, this is for modem,
or this is for this.
No, you wouldn't see the droplets.
There would just be folders.
So what happens is the
droplets in the folder.
You know, that's besides the point.
And then the journalist, your student,
would just drag it to the folder.
And what you would do is you would
put the Apple script on the server
and just attach it to that folder.
So they just got to know, oh,
for cable here,
for-- so they drag it once,
drag it for this one,
drag it for that one.
And then they leave.
And then it's just doing its thing.
So then the server is
doing all the encoding.
This script would be reading
the data from the Ref Movie,
and the Ref Movie would be pointing it
to all the sources and stuff like that,
and then encoding.
And, you know, depending, well,
what kind of network do you have?
Because then, if you have 300 students,
then you run into other problems.
Well, I have a...
You could also have a
script that would basically,
when something appears in the done file,
check for status,
and once you see that it
hasn't been written to in a
certain amount of seconds,
it could send them,
or if that was already your web server,
your QuickTime server,
it would already send them
the URL for the ref movie.
You could do something like that.
I've seen that done.
I mean...
Which one?
I used to work for Media 100.
The watch folder.
Yeah, the watch folder is tricky.
Well, you know,
if you guys have questions,
please come up to the mic.
We're pretty much
This was my last demo to end with.
If we can switch it to the slides.
[Transcript missing]
Email and please send me an email saying,
give me that script,
and I'll put detailed instructions.
I'll walk you through it, I promise.
A little flowchart or something.
Because, yeah,
it's easier when you're doing
it than me explaining it.
You really kind of have to have the
stuff on your end and do it and all that.
And once you see it work, you're like,
oh, okay, I understand now how it works.